New content for GPG encrypted Salt Pillars (#1448)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/specialized-guides/pages/salt/salt-gpg-encrypted-pillars.adoc

[[salt-gpg-encrypted-pillars]]
= GPG Encrypted Pillars

> {salt} has support to transparently decrypt GPG-encrypted Pillar data built-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{salt} has support to transparently decrypt GPG-encrypted pillar data built-in.
```

> {salt} has support for transparently decrypt GPG-encrypted Pillar data built-in.

Reviewer 2: "has support to transparently decrypt"

The decryption happens on the {salt} Master.

== Generate GPG keyring for {salt} Master

> The GPG keyring can be specified in [literal]```/etc/salt/master``` or in its own file under [literal]```/etc/salt/master.d/```, for example [literal]```/etc/salt/master.d/gpg-pillar.conf```. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GPG keyring can be specified in [path]``/etc/salt/master`` or in its own file under [path]``/etc/salt/master.d/``, for example [path]``/etc/salt/master.d/gpg-pillar.conf``. 
```

> Always create separate keyring for the {salt} Master.

Reviewer 2: "Always create a separate keyring"

[[proc-key-pair-generation]]
.Procedure: Generating key pair

> . On the {salt} Master create GPG home directory and restrict its permissions:

Reviewer 2: create (the) GPG home directory

+
----
mkdir /etc/salt/gpgkeys
chmod 700 /etc/salt/gpgkeys
----
. Generate a key pair interactively. 
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The password must be empty.
====
+
----
gpg --gen-key --homedir /etc/salt/gpgkeys
----
. {salt} does not run with root permissions on SUSE Linux Enterprise and openSUSE distributions.
+
----
chown -R salt:salt /etc/salt/gpgkeys
----
. Configure {salt} Master to use the new GPG home directory
+
----
echo 'gpg_keydir: /etc/salt/gpgkeys' >/etc/salt/master.d/gpg-pillar.conf
systemctl reload-or-restart salt-master
----

> == Use GPG for encrypting Pillar secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Use GPG for encrypting pillar secrets
```

Salt GPG renderer decrypts GPG encrypted contents that are ASCI-armored. 

> To use the GPG renderer in a Pillar YAML file, change 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the GPG renderer in a pillar YAML file, change 
```

----
#!yaml
----
to 
----
#!yaml|gpg
----

Encrypting pillar secrets can be done anywhere as long as the GPG and the public key generated in <<proc-key-pair-generation>> are available. 

In this example, "SUMA Salt Master" is the GPG key’s UID created earlier.
----
echo 't0ps3cr3t' | gpg --armor --batch --encrypt --recipient "SUMA Salt Master"
----

> Once the GPG encrytped contents are created and available as ASCII-armored output, this output can be used as a multi-line string in a pillar yaml file like below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the GPG encrytped contents are created and available as ASCII-armored output, this output can be used as a multi-line string in a pillar YAML file:
```

----
#!yaml|gpg

secret:
  my-secret: |
    -----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----

    hQEMA3OrmRaWrqgqAQf/ej8xV+nO3HVbQRCeJgCmt5ZjnogT++HHeFzXymfr1SgT
    XySyAqpIZB2N6MjZXtupO2sCmG6fzqtmnW+vRsZhQG8PAqzRtAekFuVbXzgkigBk
    338yOdyltVBtMONnkHFQ+7EP1tfJnWLCVrJ1I42vGFLZf2AD1xhbjewCcoaK82J4
    f8u9U/dxgV0N6na28WG5m6YU5Reu1Ca37PXHuqA/0XZl65DY63xaMPMDHZEi1wkU
    GXU7OsiL1dO0/sST1Awo5i99kVt/kA6DCGDuxTNpLrauNLOKUbtwcxvavtNZGwdQ
    yI9zWVx8qerWE0aO3M7zVDJftv77faV2ENiqzaadvtJHAZynW4GW7rSuP1RXFzlB
    DOAmzdRuIJwiLC9R2BKu3x+avReQb6xoz7eF7WthC0H0dz4mYakwPlVZ5yqYa/+G
    83i951rqAGI=
    =g+ji
    -----END PGP MESSAGE-----
----

> Once the pillar is assigned to a system via the [literal]```top.sls```, the GPG encrypted pillar data is available in a decrypted format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the pillar is assigned to a system with [path]``top.sls``, the GPG encrypted pillar data is available in a decrypted format. 
```

[NOTE]
====

> The minion’s in-memory cache is only updated on startup or when running execution module functions that trigger a cache refresh (for example [literal```saltutil.refresh_pillar```, [litaral]```pillar.items```, or [literal]```state.apply```)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client's in-memory cache is only updated on startup or when running execution module functions that trigger a cache refresh such as [literal]``saltutil.refresh_pillar``, [litaral]``pillar.items``, or [literal]``state.apply``.
```

====

----
suma-sles15sp1.tf.local:
    ----------
    my-secret:
        t0p s3cr3t!
----

== Export the GPG key

To export the GPG key, use the command:
----
gpg --export 'SUMA Salt Master' --homedir /etc/salt/gpgkeys --output suma-salt-master.gpg
----

> where 'SUMA Salt Master' is the name used during key generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here 'SUMA Salt Master' is the name used during key generation.
```

The [literal]```suma-salt-master.gpg``` public key can be freely shared.

> //For more information about GPG, see https://www.gnupg.org/documentation/.

Reviewer: Is this meant to be commented and thus invisible?

Author: yes
